CANVAS: Background: Which tracks did you submit? Why? How did you create them?

DANIEL: This will be my first page. Here's what I want to talk about:
        - I submitted a corpus with all of Drake and Kanye's songs from
        the years 2004 to 2016, ending at Views by Drake. 
        - I chose them because they were hugely influential to the hip hop scene
        when they broke out. Kanye brought in a new sound, away from gangster rap
        and towards soul sampling (Provide evidence)
            - Drake brought in strong melodic content, with an opening of the 
            rapper's emotion onto the scene that saw much of hip hop combine
            R&B and Rapping. It is DEFINITELY worth noting that Kanye's 808's
            bears much resemblance to this wave that Drake ushered in.
        - I am going to choose songs that are very emblematic of different eras
        and albums. I will qualify this with both knowledge and perhaps streaming
        numbers/popularity scores, maybe even with similarity groupings to other 
        songs on the album. I THINK IT IS A GOOD IDEA TO DO CLUSTERING TO JUSTIFY
        WHAT TRACKS I CHOOSE TO FOCUS ON. FOR EXAMPLE, ON SIGHT IS A BETTER EXAMPLE
        OF YEEZUS THAN BOUND 2 (IN MY OPINION), BUT CAN I CORROBORATE THAT CLAIM
        USING THE DATA?

CANVAS: Track-level features: What insights into your tracks can be drawn from track-level 
features of the class corpus (valence, genre, etc.)?

DANIEL: This will come down to what I analyze. I am hoping to see clear trends
from album to album in, definitely in topics of Valence, Energy, Danceability,
Instrumentalness, and maybe even Key. I cannot draw conclusions yet.


CANVAS: Chroma features [pitch]: What insights into your tracks can be drawn from chroma 
features?

DANIEL: I am hoping to find interesting information about how varied the harmonic 
information tends to be across their albums. For example, 808s and heartbreak has 
notoriously simple instrumentals, with long drones and not much variation in harmonic
center. I am hoping that some other parts of their music may reflect a change or
consistency with these patterns. For example, I would Yeezus to have some sporadic 
harmonic shifts like in On Sight, or for Graduation to be quite rich with full chords
compared to a song such as The Motto.


CANVAS: Loudness [volume]: What insights into your tracks can be drawn from loudness or 
power, either at the track level or the section level?

DANIEL: I think there would be interesting shifts WITHIN albums for both artists,
particularly Drake. I'd be very interested to see also a comparison of loudness
(as a measurement of energy) from What a Time to be Alive and IYRTITL to Take Care.
I would also be curious about 808s compared MBDTF and Yeezus, also compared to Ye's
first two albums. 
Within sections, I'd be curious to see if either artists has larger shifts within
songs at any point, like does Drake have shifts from high energy rap to somber singing
more than Kanye has loudness variation?

CANVAS: Timbre features [timbre]: What insights into your tracks can be drawn from 
timbre features?

DANIEL: I think I will have to stick to self-similarity matrices for this kinda thing.
They both have quite a bit of difference within songs in regards to beat switches.
However, I am honestly not certain there will be much to show. For example, much of 
Drake's 2010s music is quite dark in character. How will that show up in the MFCCs?
Will it pay a lot of attention to high frequency information where 40's synthesizers
often do not take up much space?


CANVAS: Temporal features [duration]: What is notable, effective, or ineffective about 
structural segments, metre, rhythm, or beats in your tracks?

DANIEL: I am curious to see how well it handles much of the moodier drake tracks, 
such as Wednesday Night Interlude or Marvin's Room. Metre should generally be pretty 
simple. I honestly doubt that temporal features will find much of anything. I
will need to check out the difference between spectral and novelty tempograms.


CANVAS: Clustering: Which features generate potentially meaningful clusters? 
OR Classification/regression [advanced alternative]: 
How effective are the features in our class corpus for classification or regression?

DANIEL: I think, like I said above, energy, valence, key, and maybe danceability 
should hold the key to the best clustering.

CANVAS: Contribution: What have you learned from this set of analyses? 
Who could these conclusions benefit, and how?

DANIEL: Will find out at the end.


GENERAL PREDICTIONS:
I think Dropout and Late registration will be high similarity
I think WATTBA and IYRTITL will be very similar
I think Yeezus and NWTS will be NOTHING alike.
I think Yeezus and 808s will be the most unusual albums in either artist's catalogue
I think 808s may actually be an outlier as a not speechy, very melodic kanye album.
  I do NOT think you will see a speechiness trend for him.
  I think speechiness will overall be higher for Ye than Drake
  
